Welcome to the advanced Remix workshop.
I'm so
excited to teach you all about Remix.
If you haven't already been through the
fundamentals workshop, and you don't have
any experience with Remix, or have very
little, or even I suppose if you have
some, because I've had some people who are
actually working on deploying Remix apps
right now who said that they learned
stuff in the fundamentals workshop.
So, if you haven't already
been through that one,
I suggest that you take the time
to go through that one.
Today, we're gonna be talking
about more advanced topics.
And so, you want to have at least
some good understanding of Remix
before going through today's workshop.
For those of you who are new here,
Remix is a web framework that enables you
to build excellent user experiences and
not feel ashamed of the code
that you wrote to do that.
And was the experience for me when I
rewrote my personal website, in Remix,
was I realized how awesome the user
experience was that I could create and
what an enormous scope of
application I can make and
still feel really good about
the code that I wrote.
And just to be clear that the scope
of this web application is not
like your typical developer
portfolio blog sort of thing.
Lots of really cool things in here,
probably the the most impressive
I think is the Call Cat Podcast,
where you can literally record a question
that you wanna ask me in here and
you submit this recording and
I record my response and
then our conversation gets
turned into a podcast episode.
And I do that every day,
and it's pretty cool.
And this whole thing,
whole experience, is built with Remix.
And so, today I hope to be able to show
you a couple of the things that I use on
my website in addition to some things
that I actually haven't implemented on my
website yet.
In fact, one of the topics that we're
going to be talking about today is
currently unreleased, we'll be using
an experimental version of Remix for that.
By the time this is a course it
probably will be released and
we're pretty solid on the API as well.
So, lots of really cool
things to look forward to.
Before I talk too much about the logistics
and everything else, I think it's good for
us to get the workshop set up.
So, you'll go to
the Front End Masters GitHub and
there is an advanced
Remix repository in here.
And you'll just come down to,
make sure that you have the proper system
requirements before you run this, but
you'll come down to the Setup section,
and I just stick this on my desktop.
Okay, here we go.
So, that should get
everything set up locally.
And while that's happening
in the background,
we're gonna talk a little bit about Remix.
So, in the Remix Fundamentals workshop,
we gave you an idea of the Route Module,
some of the things that
you could export on that.
We talked a little bit about nested
routing and that sort of thing,
we talked a lot about the things that you
can do before JavaScript is even included
on the page.
We did get into progressive enhancement
and adding some pending UI and stuff.
Today's workshop is what what
can you do now that we do have
JavaScript on the page?
All of the really cool things that you can
get, the better user experience that you
can offer than just
the browser can do by itself.
So, some of the exercises that we have
are doing mutations that don't involve
navigation.
So, in the Fundamentals Workshop, when you
created a blog post, you're gonna navigate
somewhere else, when that is finished,
you're gonna go somewhere else.
If you had to go somewhere else, for
every time you favorited a tweet,
that wouldn't make any sense.
So, there are a lot of use cases for
just doing a fetch request that
doesn't actually trigger a navigation.
And we're gonna talk about optimistic UI,
so making your application feel like
it's instant even though there is
actually network latency at play.
No matter how fast you make your app,
there will always be an element that
you don't control in your app, and that's
the network, the user's device connection.
And that is just one of the things
that makes web development so fun.
And so we have to deal with that but
we can make it feel like the experience
is really fast even before we go
into full on PWA offline stuff.
So, we're not gonna get into any of that,
we'll just get to the edge of
that with the Optimistic UI.
We're going to be talking
about focus management,
the true reason that we have
to use effect in React.
And so, helping us manage focus as the
user submits a form and they have errors,
we want auto focus to the field
that has the error for example.
Revalidation optimization, so
as we learned in the Remix fundamentals
workshop, Remix automatically revalidates
all of your data when you make a mutation
because all bets are off on this data,
you just change something,
I don't know if this data is up to date.
That is the correct default.
But sometimes that may not be what
the desired outcome there, maybe that's
just a ton of data you want to manage
that state yourself a little bit or
you just wanna optimize when
that's revalidation takes place.
So, we're gonna use what is currently
an unstable API for revalidation.
We're going to also do non naff fetching,
so
this is similar to our non naff mutations
but this is for making a Fetch Request.
This one could also be titled
Back End Connected UI Components,
where you have a UI component that,
well, let's take it a step back,
when React came out and they're like, look
at this thing, you've got your HTML and
your JavaScript, and everybody's like,
what garbage is this?
And now we're all doing
it because it's amazing.
And then CSS and JS comes around,
and it's like, look,
you've got CSS in you are JavaScripting.
That was arguably, maybe not the best
idea, but it kind of inspired a lot of
things as well in the view ecosystem,
you have single file components.
So, that idea of like let's bring
as much into this single file as we
can is really powerful.
A component is when we're talking
about separation of concerns,
a lot of times people would say well,
you gotta have JavaScript, HTML and CSS,
they gotta be separated,
separation concerns.
That is totally wrong because
the concern is the component and
the component is incomplete
without all three of those things.
Well it turns out that your component
is actually still incomplete without
the back end, as well, for
a lot of types of components.
And so, in this one we're going to
be adding that back end element,
should be really cool.
We are not using CSS and JS,
we're using Tailwind because it's amazing.
But it sort of is, CSS and
JS, if you squint.
So, anyway,
that one's gonna be really cool.
We're also doing imperative mutations, so
we need to have something happen
without the user doing any action.
There are plenty of examples of that and
we'll talk about when you want something
like that to happen and
how to make that happen with Remix.
It's a very app-like sort of thing.
And then pending UI, the last three are
actually all talking about what happens or
how do you improve the user's experience
when they have a slow network?
And then actually the last one is how do
you improve the user's experience when you
have a slow back end that
you can't do anything about.
Hey, cuz I mean, raise your hand
if you have ever experienced that.
Now you don't have to, but yes,
I have [LAUGH], and it is frustrating.
But if you can't do anything
about your slow back end,
then there's a really cool
API that Remix has for
you to make that experience as
good as possible for the user.